The sole reporter of the video, present e-sport as the next generation career for teenagers to undergraduate.

E-sport is introduced as a competitive video gaming with a growing exponentially popularity around the world with millions watching online.
While taking three teenagers from London who won well over a million pounds in prize money as example.

As to prove his hypothesis, he introduces to us one of the most famous sports players and gaming influencers in the world Benji Fisheye.
Earlier this year he battled and won over forty million competitors to qualify for the highest paying e-sport tournament with a prize fun of thirty million dollars.

Plainly put, him and unknown players all around the world are training week in, week out. Which Benji argue that "it just keeps getting harder and harder to qualify for the tournament, much like you've got to be a certain level to get to the finals age."

We learn through his mother that at the age of fifteen, he drop from school to focus on his career playing tournaments which already made him won over forty hundreds thousands pounds to date.

The justification as said before, is obvious, they tend to be still be up in the evening and get too tired. For his own health and happiness, it was better to simply leave school as we learn from his mother.

Afterward, the reporter presents us, one of the bigger professional gaming organizations in the world NSE, the official body of university sports in U.K. as they mention e-sport, not only a sport for top-tier teenagers battling from their bedrooms, but becoming a career choice.

Unpretentiously saying that every major university has now a gaming society with 29 teams working as a whole last year competitions. It already exceeded traditional sports as football or rugby union.

It's said that every university had his own gaming facilities to compete for students because undergraduates are now using it as a bridge for future career.

The reporter also presents, Bexley Heath School using video games with nine years old to enhance learning with concepts like algorithm. Shailaila Said is the program director of Digital Schoolhouse, and they joined hands with Nintendo no more, no less.

Nonetheless, as any other fields woman's are not appraised as much as their fellow male competitors. They interviewed Freya Spare, a professional E-sports host and producer. She thinks that five years time, they will be the next generation coming through who have been playing since eight or nine years old.

For example at Townly Grammar, evolved way beyond her imaginations. The next female generation is already on stage taking part in school e-sport competition. At the end we see girls testifying becoming game developers because it is "kind of a passion.".

He concludes his coverage by commenting e-sport as an ever-expanding industry and growing popularity specially amongst young people and only a matter of time before it becomes an integral part of our education system.

In my opinion and as a matter of fact of been studying theoretical and practical science, and being and old generation gamer.
I believe that it could be more mitigated, yes there's money, yes there's an industry ready to funds millions for undergraduates or teenagers for playing games. And even if studies show that games contribute to develop skills or assets that are significant.

It's just the easy way! What my experience in school and university taught me is that science used to develop games as an example, is on a whole different level. And uses mathematical concept that can only be learned through hard school studying and therefore should be not left aside.

In that way I believe that university incorporating scholarship is in a way a trial for teenagers because inevitably university tends to get things done seriously and pragmatically.